[grid="all"]
`------------`-----------------------
*State*         _Final_
*Date*          _2008-10-10_
*Proposed by*   link:Ichthyostega[]
-------------------------------------



the Marble Mode
---------------
''dual working styles -- build up from small pieces of clay or cut away the
  unneeded parts from a block of marble''

While the usual UI of video editors quite well supports a working style
assembling the result from small building blocks by relying on clips (media
objects)



Description
~~~~~~~~~~~
This proposal stems from an discussion on the Mailinglist starting with the
quote from Walter Murch "Marble and Clay".
 +
It is thought to be in support and to complement nasa's
link:DelectusShotEvaluator.html[Delectus Shot Evaluator]

The central Idea is to remove the difference between "viewing", i.e. the media
viewer and the timeline/Sequence on the other hand. Lumiera is designed to
handle multiple Sequences, which can even arbitrarily be embedded in one
another (the so called _meta-clips_ ). Basically, Sequences are a comparatively
cheap resource, so the idea is to create a new Sequence on-the-fly to do the
viewing already based on a complete timeline. It is up to the user finally to
promote one of these workbench-like timelines to become "the" master timeline.

To make this usable, in the GUI there should be a slightly different
representation which aims at reducing vertical screen usage. Also the track
heads could be reduced, e.g. we don't need controls for mixing and panning, the
effect stacks could be reduced to a simple mark indicating that there is any
effect in a given time range, anything concerned with the fine points of
wiring, tweaking effects and controling automation could be left out
deliberately. This would allow us to have several independant timelines
above/below each other. There could be at least two, maybe even three or four
"slots" which could be allocated by a timeline to display. Every time you open
a new media, a new Sequence will be created on the fly and a new timeline
display of this Sequence will be available, replacing the least recently used
timeline display slot. Of course, re-visiting an already opened media will
bring back the corresponding timeline in the state you left it, with markers,
notes, maybe even trimmings and added clips. Contrast this GUI mode with the
usual working mode (the "clay mode"), where  there is _one_ central timeline,
probably with tabs to switch between multiple independant Sequences (including
the ones which actually are embedded in another timeline as meta-clips)

Basically, each of these timelines has a separate, independant transport, but
transports can be locked together, and in locked state you can displace/offset
the locked partners relative to one another. Moreover, there would be at least
two viewer windows which would be automatically connected to recieve the ouput
of the timelines as new timelines are placed in the visible slots to work with.
To round things up, we need good keybindings for navigtation, and of course you
can liberally mark parts and spill them over to another timeline, either
overwriting or shifting existing footage there.

Technically, to support this working mode, _opening a media_ would:

 * create a clip containing the whole media
 * on-the-fly create new Sequence containing this clip
 * allocate the next usable display slot and create a timeline display
   featuring this Sequence there

Initially this new Sequence would be anonymous. But the moment you do the first
non-trivial modification there (like adding a label, trimming off parts, adding
/deleting tracks), the new Sequence would be promoted to be a named and
persisted entity, which from then on could itself serve as a new
"pseudo-media". It would appear as an asset on its own (probably in a special
sub category), and it could be used as a source to create clips from. This way,
you could work with your media, prepare it, augment it even by adding effects
like colour correction. And because it's a real Sequence, you could do
non-trivial things there right in-place, like adding new sub-tracks, placing
other media on them -- and then later on use this prepared media like a real
media captured from camera source.

Finally, there should be the possibility to "play" a clip bin, thereby
on-the-fly creating a new Sequence filled with all the clips in the order they
were arranged in the bin. This would yield a bridge to the more clip-oriented
working style and also provide a cheap implementation of the "sparse timeline"
or "storyboard mode"



Tasks
^^^^^
 * have several switchable _perspectives_ or working modes in the GUI
 * associate a _workflow state_ whith each Sequence, to track when an Sequence
   is just anonymous, gets a named entity, is a clip-bin-tied Sequence, or
   finally is the master Sequence connected to the global output pipes section.
 * work out the details of the "display slot allocation"
 * provide an "opening media" compound function, comprised of
   * creating the clip covering the whole media (./) (already implemented)
   * creating a new Sequence and populating it with this clip
 * make locked-together transports work
   * in the GUI (transport controls)
   * for coordinating the corresponding playback/render schedules (playback
     controller, which is located in the core according to our current
     planning)









Rationale
^^^^^^^^^
Lumiera is not pioneering the video editing by computers. We are sort of
second-generation (or even third generation) of computer based editing systms.
The tradition of conventional, film based editing clearly shows us these two
quite different working approaches, which obviously can have quite some impact
on the resulting style and rythm of the final movie. The distinguishing
property of the working style to be supported by the "marble mode" is that it
bypasses the state of creating and organizing clips, but rather directly
evolves the footage into the final cut. This working style is dual to the
common clip based approach, none of them is superior or inferior, thus we
should actively support both working styles.






Comments
--------

Final
~~~~~

Everyone likes this and we want to have this. But this is rather a concept
which needs a lot more discussion for the implementation. Further details may
follow where these thingsare worked out.

    Do 14 Apr 2011 03:06:42 CEST Christian Thaeter



Back to link:/documentation/devel/rfc.html[Lumiera Design Process overview]
