2009-09-09 Lumiera Developers Meeting
=====================================
Raffaella_Traniello_and_Hermann_Vo√üeler <prg@ichthyostega.de>

Sep 9, 2009 on +#lumiera+ +
^20:00 - 22:30 UTC^

.Participants
- cehteh
- ichthyo
- joelholdsworth
- andrewjames
- daniieel
- hermanr
- liveD
- raffa
- SimAV



Point 1: FrOSCon
----------------

Our participation to the conference was a success. We met other video
developers and people interested in Lumiera.
It has been a meeting opportunity for the community, it produced good and
reusable propaganda material (about 100 flyers distributed).
This success wouldn't be possible without a lot of people helping. +
So lets say: *Thank you all*!

We plan to be there again next year with another Lumiera meeting (possibly
all the 3 core devs present). _Ichthyo_ consideres to do a dedicate talk
(in German).

Participation as a group to other possible events has been considered for +
(in order of interest):
LAC, Piksel, OVC, Piksel Summer camp, Linuxtag, FSCONS.

To improve visibility _liveD_ proposes to extend the project also on the
new social network like facebook. +
The proposal is discussed but doesn't find supporters.


Point 2: Funding
----------------

Preparing for FrOSCon had some costs, paid by the people working in
Lumiera. Ideally, _cehteh_ says, people working on Lumiera should not have
to pay for working on it, no matter who pays.
He proposes to make a project partnership with FFIS (a German non-profit
organisation for founding free software).
That means we could officially collect donations through FFIS (people
donate to FFIS, to free software in general or specifically to Lumiera).
That could work out well for specific scopes, like covering travel,
lodging and diet for developer gatherings or for exhibition material and
server.

The proposal is accepted. _Cehteh_ will contact FFIS to propose them a partnership.
If later on there will be funding for development (not just covering expenses)
that would require a different approach and special communication with the
community.

_daniieel_ proposes to put a price to each request in "buglist". +
The proposal is discussed and dismissed.


Point 3: Website
----------------

The news in the homepage makes the project look alive. But this is not
enough to communicate the state of the Lumiera development. Two 
solutions are proposed:

* The website needs to be reorganized and made accessible. andrewjames
  volunteers to work on it.
* Quarterly development news will be published in the devel section of the
  website. The devs will post drafts to the mailing list and encourage the
  other devs to add their informations. Then someone shall aggregate this
  and make a news webpage. That creates a new task: help collecting the
  news and write them together.

The devs will communicate their achievements more often in small steps
to the mailing list

_raffa_ proposes monthly news on the homepage with more broad topics
(development, community, openvideo). +
The proposal gets no interest.


Point 4: Ticket Query clean-up
------------------------------

Trac allows for creation of custom ticket queries. We've accumulated quite some
custom reports, and _cehteh_ asks if some of them can be dropped (Ticket #225).
_Ichthyo_ points out that he uses some reports frequently, and considers some
others nice-to-have. Finally it turns out that only Report #5 isn't used by
anyone and can be dropped.

_Cehteh_ points out that the http://issues.lumiera.org/tags[TracTags] macro
is a convenient feature -- for example it allows to tag tickets by required skill.


Point 5: Coding
---------------

_Cehteh_ finished a first stable NoBug release and intends to give uWiki a boost
in the next weeks. _Ichthyo_ worked on a command frontend usable at the GUI/Proc
interface; in the next time, there will be some integration work to be done
together with _Joelholdsworth_ to get the GUI and high-level model connected.

A short discussion about the relevance of uWiki for Lumiera follows. Indeed,
it takes away some developer power, and _Joelholdsworth_ is concerned about that,
as the project is a bit underpowered generally. _Cehteh_ on the contrary considers
building a suitable (distributed) infrastructure as an important part of the
project.



