2023-09-13 Lumiera Developers Meeting
=====================================
:Author: Ichthyo
:Date: 2023-09-14

Sep 13, 2023 on #lumiera 20:00 - 22:30 UTC +

__Participants__

 * ichthyo
 * benny
 * cehteh
 
_Summary written by Ichthyo_

''''

Focus Topics
------------
_Ichthyo_ started to define a collection of *FocusTopics*.
These should be topics to focus the further development *after* the current Engine integration effort
is completed. Some existing tickets were extended, and further new tickets created, all marked with
the Tag `FocusTopic`

-> See https://issues.lumiera.org/report/17[Report-17] in the Lumiera Issue Tracker


_Ichthyo_ identified some problematic questions around session modifications and change logging,
especially in connection with rules based configuration.

In-depth Discussion about event sourcing and session modification

the problem with configuration changes: these should be recorded as an event in the Event-Log.
This requires however to represent the complete configuration in a consolidated form as part of the Model.
A change in the configuration could then be detected and recorded as an Event.

Another task to address is how the actual Diff Messages will be generated. We could first manipulate
the data model and then _detect_ a Diff. Yet the favourable solution would be to interpret the Commands
and directly derive Events, with an attached Diff, which can then be applied against the data model
as a projection.

Discussion what topics should be addressed first

It seems the topics regarding Event Log and Session persistence #1234 #540 and #569 should be addressed first,
since these may lead to decisions relevant for many other parts of the system.
Possibly also #332 regarding a full definition of placement capabilities.


The topic of placement interpretation will already be touched in the *next* vertical slice,
where we intend to add a clip to the timeline. For this we'll need at least a _simple_ resolution
capability of placements, because we'll attempt do the groundwork for the Builder.

_Benny_ proposes to add »interface« and »mock« tickets for Event-Log and Placements, blocking the
full implementation follow-up tickets. Then these preliminary parts can be addressed first and 
integrated as part of the »Add Clip« Vertical Slice. For Context: currently the »Playback« Vertical
Slice is being worked on, aiming at a first integration of the Render Engine.


Playback Vertical Slice
-----------------------
_Ichthyo_ reports on the progress of the »Playback Vertical Slice« effort.

- Memory Manager is implemented and tested
- Activity Language is also completed and tested
- a passive worker pool has been implemented, based on the C++17 concurrency framework

Next steps...

- retrofit our existing Thread wrapper (which was based on POSIX) to use C\+\+17 thread support;
  this should be a drop-in replacement, since our own old design almost completely matches the
  design and feature set standardised with C++17
- complete implementation of the Scheduler Layer-2, integrating Activity-Language and worker pool
- integration test of the Scheduler

Documentation Index and Glossary
--------------------------------
_Benny_ reworked and extended the documentation overview in the Lumiera website.
This can be published now. Moreover, _Benny_ investigated Glossary and Index generation.
It turns out that ASCIIDOC offers already an index generation feature, which could be configured
and used to build an index and a glossary. The next goal would be to build a prototype for testing
and to see how this can be integrated into the website infrastructure.

Library solutions for Video Display
-----------------------------------
_Benny_ conducted some research regarding library solutions for *video display*, notably
ffmpeg, GStreamer and libVLC. It was rather easy to code up an "hello world" example based on
GStreamer, while it was difficult to find suitable documentation regarding the ffmpeg based
solution. Moreover, GStreamer seems to have a much more active and helpful community.

Next steps would be to also look more in-depth into libVLC, and especially to compare the
feature sets of these solutions. _Cehteh_ points out that MPV (formerly MPlayer) would also
be an interesting point of reference. _Benny_ mentions that GTK4 offers an integrated
video display capability.

Extended discussion ensues, regarding video frameworks and the difficulties regarding the plethora
of interfaces, especially when it comes to hardware acceleration support. Ideally, the Lumiera
project should follow the solutions provided by a sufficiently active community, capable to follow
the constant evolution of interfaces and framework.

It was agreed upon that the »Playback Vertical Slice« just needs a very simple solution to output
raw video (RGB888 or YUV), and offers a good opportunity for experimentation to find a suitable
support framework


''''

Next meeting
------------

The next meeting will be Wednesday Oct 11, 20:00 UTC


''''


