Past Meetings
=============

//Menu: sort children descending

Not all meetings gets summarized on this page. For example, there are no meeting
summaries at all available for 2010. This only means that there were not enough
things that needed deciding/documenting during these meetings to warrant someone
spending time on the task of writing a summary.

Anyone interested in Lumiera development is also encouraged to read mailing list
archives and other documentation.

10 Jan 2024
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Scheduler performance testing
 * using GStreamer for Video output to the GUI

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2024-01-10.html[Summary (by benn)]


13 Dec 2023
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Extended technical discussion about Scheduler load testing
   and how to find out about inherent limitations of the approach taken

8 Nov 2023
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Wikipedia
 * Scheduler integration and testing
 * Video output to the GUI

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2023-11-08.html[Summary (by ichthyo)]


11 Oct 2023
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Scheduler and worker pool design
 * Rework of multithreading support
 * Compiler and platform upgrades

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2023-10-11.html[Summary (by ichthyo)]


13 Sep 2023
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * »Focus Topics«
 * Progress on the »Playback Vertical Slice«
 * Website Index and Glossary generator
 * Library solutions for video display in the GUI

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2023-09-13.html[Summary (by ichthyo)]


12 Sep 2013
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Doxygen
 * FrOSCon aftermath
 * Scheduler interface and requirements definition

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2013-09-12.html[Summary (by ichthyo)]


************************
Most of our monthly developer meetings are informal discussions currently.
At times, there is only one developer working at the code, and thus there
is not much need for coordination. Sometimes, in-depth technical discussions
and decisions take place, and we'll publish at least an IRC transcript in
those cases; typically we also create a RfC to summarise the decisions.
************************


11 Oct 2012
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * automatisation of packaging
 * dealing with GTK-3 and the Gnome Docking Library
 * builddrone improvements
 * creating support tools for documentation writing,
   especially for cross-links and glossary

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2012-10-11.html[Summary (by benn)]


12 Sep 2012
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * RFCs
 * Upgrade to Wheezy/GTK-3
 * Master and the Documentation repository
 * Builddrone v2
 * Trac problems
 * Git Commit Message Format

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2012-09-12.html[Summary (by cehteh)]


************************
During 2012 again the regular monthly meethings
were mostly informal detail discussions plus some
organisational planning. Not much to account for.
************************


11 Jan 2012
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Website status. Clean-up of TiddlyWikis
 * cross-links and link checking for the website
 * promotion: Libre Graphics Magazine
 * rendering to file: library solutions

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2012-01-11.html[Summary (by cehteh)]




14 Dec 2011
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * discussion about build systems.
 * review of the SCons build scripts
 * some details about the scheduler and invoking render jobs

////
Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2011-12-14.html[IRC Transcript (prepared by XXXX)]
////


************************
During Summer 2011 we kept up our monthly IRC meetings -- rather casual exchange
for the time being.

- 9 Nov 2011
- 12 Oct 2011
- 14 Sep 2011
- 10 Aug 2011
- 13 Jul 2011
- 8 Jun 2011
************************

11 May 2011
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * detailed technical discussion about the Render Engine Interface

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2011-05-11.html[IRC Transcript (prepared by Ichthyo)]




13 Apr 2011
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * New Website Page Layout
+
liquid layout -- scrolling -- colours

 * Website licensing and legal questions
 * Trac spam
 * Go through Ideas and Drafts in design process
+
accepted: ForwardIterator, HighLevelModel, Placement concept, Session structure

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2011-04-13.html[Summary (written by Hermann Voßeler)]




9 Mar 2011
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * The New Website
 * IRC Logs
 * VoIP discussions over Mumble?
 * Version numbering

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2011-03-09.html[Summary (written by Stefan Kangas)]


.informal meetings, no summaries
********
In 2010, the monthly meetings where rather informal gatherings,
without any relevant decisions beyond the organisation of conference activities.
During that time, usually the two remaining Lumiera core developers where alternatively
either prevented by real-life obligations, or otherwise just in ``deep coding mode''
********


9 Sep 2009
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * FrOSCon
 * Funding
 * Website
 * Ticket Query Clean-up
 * Coding

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2009-09-09.html[Summary (written by raffa and Ichthyo)]

14 Jan 2009
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * organisational (protocol, agenda, leftovers?)
 * Logo Contest results, elaborating the winner concept
 * Forming a Workflow group
 * Set up a Trac for issue tracking
 * Getting the \'non-coders' community to help
 * Possible GUI-Integration: Display a frame?

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2009-01-14.html[Summary (written by raffa)]




10 Dec 2008
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * organisational (protocol, agenda, leftovers?)
 * Logo Contest progress, discussion about how to do the pre selection
 * rename "EDL" into "Sequence"
 * link:DesignProcess/TimelineSequenceOutput[Project, Timeline(s), Sequence(s) and Output]
 * GUI/Proc Interface and collaboration
 * Threading questions regarding gtk-main and main()

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-12-10.html[Summary (written by Teld)]




12 Nov 2008
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * organisational (protocol, agenda, leftovers?)
 * Logo Contest progress
 * uWiki Progress
 * Builddrone, any helpers?
 * Platform and lib dependency status
 * Discussion about foreseeable problems with Gui Plugins
 * Include dir and namespaces
 * build system, plugin tree

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-11-12.html[Transcript (supplemented by Ichthyo in 2011)]



10 Oct 2008
-----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * organisational (protocol, agenda...)
 * Lumiera Logo
 * Design Process: Go through Ideas and Drafts
   - Mistakes to avoid
   - Tag clouds
   - Lumiera Architecture
   - EDLs as meta-clips
   - Builder
   - Lua scripting language
   - Time handling
   - Interface naming
 * Config System (1st version landed)
 * Use of Namespaces
 * Interface Definition Language

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-10-10.html[Summary (written by Ichthyo)]




4 Sep 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * boilerplate (protocol, agenda, ...)
 * Plugin Descriptors
 * Mailinglist, setup, administration
 * Lumiera-work Mailinglist (for TODOs)
 * About Website transition plan

Summary
^^^^^^^
_(missing)_




7 Aug 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Go through Ideas and Drafts in design process
 * Config System (in the works)
 * Scripting language plans
 * GUI brainstorming page

Summary
^^^^^^^
_(missing)_




6 Jul 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * boilerplate (protocol, what's left from last meeting)
 * Introduction of Lumiera
 * handling of config errors. 
 * scripting language. 
 * editing on small devices (eeePC) 
 * uWiki. 
 * 'musical' timeline in bars and beats

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-07-06.html[Summary (written by Teld)]




6 Jun 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * boilerplate (protocol, what's left from last meeting)
 * Go through Ideas and Drafts in design process
   - processing node interface
   - Placement concept 

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-06-06.html[Summary (written by ichthyo)]




8 May 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * boilerplate (protocol, what's left from last meeting)
 * Go through Ideas and Drafts in design process
 * Website infrastructure

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-05-08.html[Summary (written by cehteh)]




3 Apr 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * boilerplate (protocol, what's left from last meeting)
 * Go through Ideas and Drafts in design process
 * Call for volunteers (which tasks are to do, how can we interest people) for wiki/todo.html
 * Project announcements/registration (freshmeat, gnu, etc...) any takers?
 * Informal talk about the GUI (We have some people who want to contribute now, what's going on, how can they start)
 * froscon application (linux multimedia booth?)
 * timecode-metadata discussion: convert to arithmetic time type early or late?

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-04-03.html[Summary (written by sakalli)]




6 Mar 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * boilerplate (protocol, whats left from last meeting, next meeting)
 * Go through Ideas and Drafts in design process
 * "Call for design" for some features relevant for the whole Application:
   - parameters and automation
   - render node interface
   - handling of compound sessions
   - session storage interface in general
 * Project name
 * Project Server, setup, organization, administration
 * GPL3 pros cons, license rationale

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-03-06.html[Summary (written by cehteh)]




1 Feb 2008
----------

Topics
~~~~~~
 * Who will write the protocol below
 * Discuss the open points in link:Lumiera/DesignProcess[] do we need this formalism?
 * Who works on what, what are the short term goals, what tasks are open
 * State of the new-name search for the was-intended-as-cinelerra-3 project (no name discussion, just how we will progress!)
 * Introduce the development model
 * How to handle the regular meetings in future (day, time, where to put summaries)

Summary
^^^^^^^
 * link:2008-02-01.html[Summary (written by Ichthyo)]

